You said that we're just starting to
scratch the surface of what an agentic
society actually looks like.
>> We're approaching this world in which
the marginal cost of the good output is
approaching zero. We're going to see
exponential demand for productivity and
output. The way that you scale to that
is with agents. When all of that
happens, the org chart starts to become
the work chart. You just don't need as
many layers. We were chatting about this
concept you have that we're moving from
product as artifact to product as
organism
>> because these models are so effective at
this point. You want to start to tune
them to certain types of outcomes. All
of a sudden these are these living
organisms that just get better with the
more interactions that happen. I think
this is the new IP of every single
company products that think and live and
learn.
>> Planning right now is just crazy. How
does anyone plan a road map when there's
just like, okay, JPT5's out? We think
about it as what season are we in?
Season one might have been prototyping
of AI and then it was all around models
and reasoning models and now it's the
advent of agents.
Today my guest is Asha Sharma. Asha's
chief vice president of product for
Microsoft's AI platform where she
oversees their AI infrastructure
foundation models and agent tool chains
while also leading applied engineering,
responsible AI and growth for the core
AI division. She was previously COO at
Instacart and VPR product at Meta where
she ran Messenger, Instagram direct,
Messenger Kids, and remote presence. She
also sits on the boards of the Home
Depot and Coupang and she's a
secondderee black belt in Taekwond do.
Asha is a really unique and rare role
that allows her to see more than most
anyone else in the world where things
are heading with AI and what works and
doesn't work for companies that are
building large-scale AI products. In our
conversation, Asha shares a bunch of
trends and predictions that she's seeing
that I haven't heard anyone else talk
about. Why we're moving from a product
as artifact to product as organism
world. Why guies are being replaced by
code native interfaces. Why
post-training is the new pre-training.
The coming agentic society, what it
takes to be a successful builder today
and going forward, and also her single
biggest leadership lesson that she
learned from Satia, who she works
closely with. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. Also, if you become an annual
subscriber of my newsletter, you get a
year free of 15 incredible products,
including lovable, replet, bold, nad,
linear, superhuman, dscript, whisper
flow, gamma, perplexity, warp, granola,
magic patterns, raycast, chapardd, and
mobin. Check it out at
lenny'snewsletter.com and click product
pass. With that, I bring you Asha
Chararma.
This episode is brought to you by
Interpret. Interpret is a customer
intelligence platform used by leading CX
and product orgs like Canva, Notion,
Perplexity, Strava, Hinge, and Linear to
leverage the voice of the customer and
build best-in-class products. Interpret
unifies all customer conversations in
real time from gong recordings to Zenesk
tickets to Twitter threads and makes it
available for your team for analysis and
for action. What makes Interpret unique
is its ability to build and update a
customerspecific knowledge graph that
provides the most granular and accurate
categorization of all customer feedback
and connects that customer feedback to
critical metrics like revenue and
seesat. If modernizing your voice of
customer program to a generational
upgrade is a 2025 priority like
customer- ccentric industry leaders like
Canva, Notion, Perplexity, and Linear,
reach out to the team at
interpret.com/lenny.
That's e n t e r p re t.com/lenny.
Today's episode is brought to you by DX,
the developer intelligence platform
designed by leading researchers. To
thrive in the AI era, organizations need
to adapt quickly. But many organization
leaders struggle to answer pressing
questions like which tools are working,
how are they being used, what's actually
driving value. DX provides the data and
insights that leaders need to navigate
this shift. With DX, companies like
Dropbox, Booking.com, Adion, and
Intercom get a deep understanding of how
AI is providing value to their
developers and what impact AI is having
on engineering productivity. To learn
more, visit DX's website at
getdx.com/lenny.
That's getdx.com/lenny.
>> Asha, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me. I want to start
with something that uh we were chatting
about before this that I've never heard
about as a concept that I think is uh is
going to be really helpful for people to
think about which is this concept you
have that we're moving from product as
artifact to product as organism. Talk
about what that means and what people
need to understand here. It's a it's
been a pretty interesting shift
especially over the last year or so
because when I got to Microsoft um it
was kind of right after uh open AI and
the large foundation models happened and
then immediately after there was this
explosion of models uh proprietary open
uh frontier models that were pushing the
frontier curve and so they were both uh
more efficient and then we started to
see domain level expertise in a bunch of
them and then you know even more
recently models now can you know tool
call and they can function call and they
can take action and I think that's just
giving way to a new type of products
that are uh starting to see uh some
success and so all of a sudden products
aren't just like these static artifacts
that we start to ship that's not just
like hey come up with an idea or an
insight go solve a problem ship it into
the world maybe make it a little bit
better and then have a dashboard all of
a sudden the the whole KPI is what is
the the metabolism of a product team to
be able to ingest data and then digest
the rewards model and then create some
sort of outcome because these models are
so effective at this point. You want to
start to tune them to certain types of
outcomes whether it's price or
performance or quality. And so it's
pretty exciting because all of a sudden
these are these living organisms that
just get better with the more
interactions that happen. And in many
ways, I think this is the new IP of
every single company. And it's a
completely different way to build
product and to even think about, you
know, products that think and live and
learn, which is kind of exciting.
>> So when I hear this, what I'm thinking
about is when I had Michael Terrell on
the podcast, the cursor co, he talked a
lot about how their big mode is the data
that they capture from people using
cursor, selecting, accepting certain
suggestions, not accepting other
suggestions. Is that what you're talking
about here? just like the proprietary
data that companies gather from people
using their product or is there
something beyond that even
>> I think why we're seeing like the rise
of post training happen is just that the
the models themselves like are so
powerful as of this year Nathan Lambert
uh did this study that I thought was
pretty interesting of all the top leader
boards and it showed that you know once
a model hits 30 billion parameters the
capex to actually train a model and put
you know billions of tokens into a a
kind of pre-run kind of doesn't
economically make sense and you can kind
of start to optimize on the loop and so
yeah in many ways I think you can I
think using your own data is the best
way to do that but you can synthetically
generate data you have to come up with a
rewards design you have to actually roll
it out you have to AB test it rigorously
you have to find the job to be done or
the use case that it makes the most
sense for and then yes like that
generates data that you can learn uh
from I haven't ever seen it be one loop
um for any any sort of product. I I
think it's multiple tracks running in in
parallel that are kind of like assembly
lines if you will um and kind of
producing that.
>> And so is this kind of uh thesis that
we're moving towards product as organism
is this is this basically for model
companies or is this also true for I
don't know SAS businesses and tools and
user tools. look like I think that um
software as a primitive is changing and
kind of the artifact inside of it uh is
is a model alongside the software
components itself. And so in many ways I
think that you know software products
will all be model forward products if
you will. This reminds me why I just had
uh Nick Turley on the podcast who we
were talking about before we started
recording head of chat GPTt and uh I was
asking just like how much does chat GBT
change with GBT5 coming out and he's
just like it's the same thing they're
the same product it's just like G the
model tells us what to do in the product
of chat GBT and um and it makes me think
about something else of just like you
would think why can't just GPT5 build
its own user interface just like as you
use it it just evolve it's sort of what
it's doing with canvas and all these
things. But like that's like another way
I think about when you talk about this
idea of product as organism is the
product the UX can shift based on how
you're using it and evolve automatically
without having the product teams have to
do anything.
>> I 100% believe that's where the world is
going and that my experience should look
and feel different than yours. I mean
that's kind of been the admin and
personalization but now you can do it on
the fly in the future. So I think
that'll be a pretty fun world. I I also
think it will look different for agents
and it will look different for kind of
power users and new users and all those
things too.
>> Let me let me kind of zoom out a little
bit and ask you this question. You work
with a bunch of companies that are
building AI products on your platform,
other platforms. I imagine some just do
an awesome job and are killing it. Some
are struggling.
What do you find are kind of common
patterns across the companies that do
really well and have a lot of success
building really successful AI products
and ones that don't?
>> Yeah. So, I think there's things that
are kind of more broadly applying to the
organization themselves and then there's
uh things that are applying to the
people who are building the the AI uh
products too. So more broadly I think
there's there's a pattern that's
starting to emerge for successful
companies like one is they are embracing
AI and everybody becomes AI fluent. So I
think everybody's using some sort of
co-pilot or some sort of AI in their
day-to-day workflows like job one so
everyone's not afraid of it understands
how we can raise the ceiling and and
kind of lower lower the floor for like
all sorts of skills and and and tasks.
Number two, from there they start to
say, okay, how can I take a process that
already exists and apply AI to making it
better? That might be uh something like
customer support or taking fraud down
from 15 days to kind of cure to to 10
days and like going through that entire
loop of mapping out the process,
applying AI to it, seeing some sort of
impact and then feeling the the P&L or
the kind of intrinsic benefits that that
that looks like. The third thing then is
like, okay, great. Now that you've seen
impact, your everybody is using it. How
do you actually use it to inflect
growth? And that can be something like
improving the customer experience, so
your LTV or retention improves. It could
be co-creating a new kind of set of
concepts or categories. It could be, you
know, going from agents that are
embedded to agents that are embodied and
then being able to take on, you know,
exponential number of tasks. I think
that where companies fail is that
they're doing AI for AI sake. They have
a ton of projects that they're kicking
off at the same time without a blueprint
to understand how it actually worked
from what their stack looks like and
they aren't aren't treating it like a
real investment and so they don't have
the measurement and the observability
and the eval kind of set up. It's going
to do that end to end. I think the
tricky thing is for enterprises is the
the technology is changing. There are
something like 70,000 enterprise tools
like in the AI space launched last year.
it's really hard to know which one you
should use for what outcome. And so you
really need to bet on a platform or some
sort of app server type layer that
allows you to swap things in and out and
not really be beholden to anything any
any one technology or any one tool
because the reality is is the whole
thing is going to change. Feel like you
have to actually build for the slope
instead of the snapshot of where you
are. So that's that's kind of what I see
at the enterprise level. I think the the
builders themselves are actually
changing pretty fundamentally too,
right? Every single advent like change
of technology has invented like a a
changing set of roles. um like
mainframes to PCs like the whole garage
engineers and then when we went from you
know server to cloud and mobile there
was like SEO specialists and CDNs and
you know growth PMS and UXR and and and
you know front end backend and yada yada
and now I think we're seeing this advent
of of the polymath and where um I think
that full stack builders are kind of
having their renaissance where if you
take like an average organization, it
takes probably 10 steps to launch a
product. Um, it could be security
review, it could be spec, it could be,
you know, user research and there's what
five plus functions. Um, maybe maybe six
or seven. I'm being generous for for a
normal organization. And then you have
like six or seven layers. So all of a
sudden you have 500 different touch
points that have to happen to get a
product out. And when there are 500
models available a week or 500 new
technologies, that is just insufficient.
And so I really believe in in the
concept of a full stack builder. You're
seeing it with a bunch of the AI native
companies that are coming up. I'm even
seeing it in enterprises that have been
around for 50 years starting to operate
in that way. And I think that gives you
velocity and throughput and then gives
you the whole loop to start to actually
uh metabolize and go through that much
faster. That's definitely a recurring
theme on on in these conversations is
just kind of the ven diagrams of PM
engineering design are starting to
converge and more and more of other
disciplines within your role. So PM
needs to level up on design and or
engineering.
>> Yeah, I completely agree. I think it's
all about the loop not not the lane
here. Um, and so I think that whatever
uh function you are, you have to be
obsessed with trying to understand like
the efficiency or the cost of of the
product, the actual rewards or you like
you know system design that you're going
after, the actual UI UX, how that
actually manifests for agents or people.
You have to start to get really good at
that really quickly.
>> I like this phrase you just use the the
loop and not the lane. Can you say more
about that? Oh, it's just going back to
our our previous discussion on, you
know, the signals loop and uh products
evolving and becoming these living
organisms and not these artifacts. And
if if you think about getting really
good at that loop, I think that is the
product that is the IP that is the
future of every organization. And I
think feedback becomes continuous and
observability becomes the culture. And I
think that um functions start to to blur
um in future workforces. To make this
even more real, is there an example of a
product or company that is a really good
example of this of this doing this well
living this kind of loop life?
>> I think most companies that we're seeing
in the space from an AI perspective are
doing this. I can tell you about a
couple that we're working on. Obviously,
in in the coding space, you mentioned
cursor. GitHub has very similar features
that we're using kind of an ensemble of
models that have been fine-tuned across,
you know, uh 30 different countries. all
of the languages to actually then go
iterate in a loop for next edit
suggestions or code completions and
things like that. We've got um an AI uh
product uh called Dragon that's for
physicians and uh we saw a massive
difference from when we used you know
synthetic fine-tuning to when we
annotated 600,000 patient um physician
interactions by experts and actually fed
that into the model and continuously
optimized it to then produce like you
know I think we're sitting between 30
and 60 character acceptance rate
depending on the run to something like
83 3%. And so that required a small
group of individuals, not a large
organization that were able to actually
iterate in this loop across functions
and kind of all of those lines
dissolving.
>> That's super interesting. So kind of
what what I'm hearing here is if you can
gather data on how things are going and
then spend a lot of time creating high
quality labeling to feed back into it to
fine-tune it is basically the big
advantage is is how you win in in a lot
of this stuff. Okay. Along these lines,
something else that you told me that
you've been noticing that I want to hear
more about is the shift from guies and
you kind of referenced this from guies
to code native interfaces.
>> Yeah.
>> Talk about what that means, what that
looks like and what this means for folks
building product.
>> I think it kind of goes back to what
does it mean to kind of be a product
maker in the future. I think that
everybody's instinct is like is a is a
uh gooey. But if you kind of think back
in history like databases kind of went
from the desktop kind of down into SQL.
I think cloud was all about consoles and
now it's about Terraform. And so I think
we're literally just seeing the same
pattern that's played out in history
start to play out in AI. And like
everything else in AI, it's like Moore's
law and it's getting faster. And so I
think that's just accelerating. And if
you think about like a stream of of text
just connects better with LLMs. And so I
think that there's a bunch of trends
that are kind of working in the favor
for like the future of products being
about composability and not the canvas.
And I think that product makers really
need to rewire their mindset around this
because I think we spend an inordinate
amount of time thinking about the the UI
of something rather than how something
composes, how an agent's going to be
able to read something. How do you
actually get infinite scale? how does
that collaboration start to work? And so
I think it's just a new uh way of
thinking even though it's long been a
trend uh that's happened in these
changes.
>> So is the prediction here that it's uh
terminals like uh claude code sort of
experiences or is it that it's agents
that are taking what or is it both? Is
that kind of what you're sharing?
>> I think it's yeah it's I mean look if I
if any of us knew that would be amazing.
Um, I just think that the reason why
terminals and are are uh great and it
feels really great when you code is
because of the way it can interact with
an LLM with the text stream. And I think
that both can be true that humans will
continue to commit code and we'll find
you know new ways to actually do that
whether it's in the IDE whether it's in
GitHub copilot whether it's in you know
some new development environment. Um,
and I think that we'll do that with
agents and agents will do that with each
other and we'll continue to kind of
evolve from there.
>> We had a Brett Taylor in the podcast,
founder of Sierra, and he had a similar
prediction that all software companies
are going to become agent companies and
it's essentially what you're saying here
is that like your software will just be
this thing that's running in the
background and there's much less of a
guey. Do you think it still becomes like
this chat interface the way we're kind
of getting used to? Is that like the
primary interface with agents or is
there anything else happening? Like I
think that conversation is a really
powerful interface. I worked on
messaging. I think it's um it's it's
great for lots of forms of
communication, but it's not the only
form of communication. I mean, we use
email today to to collaborate with each
other. We use Docs like everybody uses
Word and PowerPoint. Um you know,
there's a billion people living in
places of artifacts that I think can
become uh really important composable
pieces of the picture. And I think they
should be. So I I'm excited about that.
I think that um chat chat will be
important but uh certainly not
sufficient.
>> What's interesting is chat GBT the
number one fastest growing product of
all time maybe the most important
consequential product of all time is
chat.
>> Yeah. It's great. It works.
>> Um I think the question we have to ask
ourselves is will it only always be
chat?
>> Yeah. Yeah. The way Nick described it is
uh we're in the MS DOSs era of uh of
chatbt and there's a which is
interesting. It's like the reverse of
what you're saying. So it's like maybe
if you start as that and then you have
to move to guey and then maybe it'll go
back. But he said there's going to be
like a Windows version where it's much
easier to understand what the hell is
going on.
>> Yeah. I mean look like I think that it's
it's smart. You should uh every company
should be bringing AI to where their
users are and chatbt has all of their
users using chat and it's a phenomenal
product. Um, and we've got lots of
people around the world that do work in
many different ways and we should be
thinking about how we use AI to enable
that.
>> So, let's talk about agents. You spent a
lot of time working with agents,
building agents, helping companies build
agents. You have this really great quote
that I love. You said that we're just
starting to scratch the surface of what
an agentic society actually looks like.
Uh, I just love this idea of an agentic
society. What is that? What does that
actually look like in the future?
>> Oh gosh. I mean, it's it's funny. You
were telling me about your 2-year-old
and I have my son Rome just turned one
and I can't even imagine life at two cuz
I'm just like that is so far away and
what will have then developed. Look like
I think that in the future uh work will
look really different. I think that
we're approaching this world in which
the marginal cost of um a good output is
approaching zero. And I think when that
happens, we're going to see ex
exponential demand for productivity and
output. And I think that the way that
you scale to that is with agents and
it's agents that are embedded and they
their tools and their pieces of
software. And I think there's going to
be uh a ton of those far more than the
software that we use today. And then I
think there could be a set of embodied
agents that are developed and we start
to see that now, right? You can assign a
pull request to co-pilot. you can uh
create a software development rep that's
agentic that can kind of do some of the
lead generation and mining for you. And
so I think that when all of that
happens, the work chart uh the org chart
starts to become the work chart. I think
that tasks and throughput become more
important than than they have been
before. I also think that you just don't
need as many layers. like I think the
whole kind of organizational construct
might start to look different in a few
years and so uh I I'm pretty excited
about it. I think I think meetings will
still be meetings and and they'll be
weird. Uh but I think they will be a bit
better. Um and I think there'll be lots
of changes. I think that for the average
employee, my hope and and kind of my
optimistic view is that they will be
able to expand their skill set because
now they have their own agent stack that
they can bring with them to work just
like you can kind of bring your own
device and you can um start to to have
access to a set of skills that you never
had before. And so if you think about,
you know, the 20 million people that
maybe sit in that that space across
America and they get 20% more skilled,
that's like pretty exponential for GDP.
And so it's it's pretty fun.
>> This comment you made about the or the
work chart becomes the ORC chart is such
a profound concept because I don't know
if this is what you meant, but what I'm
imagining is you build these teams and
here's your mission and goal and KPIs
and it's humans and like oh cool go do
this for us. And what I'm What I'm
recognizing as you're talking is like,
okay, but if you have agents doing that,
that is their prompt. Go drive
conversion. And then you have all these
agents and that's the org your job. This
is the the conversion onboarding team
and that's like a bunch of agents off
doing their work. Is that what you mean?
>> Yeah. I mean, yeah. I think like today
we think in terms of hey, who reports to
who in the org chart and who's
responsible for these areas? And I think
at the end of the day when you have a
set of capable agents and people are
capable of more things you're not going
to start to think in hierarchy and
communicating upward are going to start
to figure out like kind of outward
taskbased type of opportunities. I think
that humans will always decide in
organizations how AI is used and what we
want to apply it to. But yeah, it's it's
kind of exciting when a a new issue
comes up or a new task comes up. How do
you actually automatically decide where
to route it? Who's working on that task?
How do you actually go work on it? How
do you observe if the agent's doing the
right thing? How do you fine-tune it if
they're not? Like all of those things.
So, I think that um I'm just
speculating, right? Uh uh that there's a
world in which that could be pretty
exciting. And I think that's great
because we can just accomplish more.
>> You touch on this point that reviewing
the work is going to be increasingly
important. If you have like a thousand
agents off doing work, it's just like,
holy moly, that's a lot to look at, make
sure they're doing the right thing. How
do you think that evolves? just like
being able to scale your ability to
review the work that's being done.
>> Yeah, I think that um the same kind of
loop that we talked about becomes
increasingly important like fine-tuning
and self-healing, observability, really
good e valves, all of that. I mean, the
good news is that there are systems that
manage this for billions of people today
that already exist. And so, I think
that, you know, we don't have to
reinvent the wheel. There's certainly
going to be a bunch of new things to
learn if that world ever plays out. Um,
but I think, you know, uh, managing
devices and policies and group access,
all those things are solved problems.
Uh, which is good.
>> This episode is brought to you by Finn,
the number one AI agent for customer
service. If your customer support
tickets are piling up, then you need
Finn. Finn is the highest performing AI
agent on the market with a 59% average
resolution rate. Finn resolves even the
most complex customer queries. No other
AI agent performs better. In
head-to-head bake offs with competitors,
Finn wins every time. Yes, switching to
a new tool can be scary, but Finn works
on any help desk with no migration
needed, which means you don't have to
overhaul your current system or deal
with delays in service for your
customers. And Finn is trusted by over
5,000 customer service leaders and top
AI companies like Anthropic and
Synthesia. And because Finn is powered
by the Finn AI engine, which is a
continuously improving system that
allows you to analyze, train, test, and
deploy with ease, Finn can continuously
improve your results, too. So, if you're
ready to transform your customer service
and scale your support, give Finn a try
for only 99 cents per resolution. Plus,
Finn comes with a 90-day money back
guarantee. Find out how Finn can work
for your team at f.ai/lenny.
That's finn.ai/lenny.
So a lot of this it feels like it's in
the future. I know a lot of this already
happening. People are using agents in
all these different ways. Is there any
way you have found value in working with
agents of some kind other than coding I
imagine is a big part of it. But just
anything there that's like wow that's a
big deal
>> at this point. We have AI and agents and
many of our workflows like one of my
favorite ones. So right now are uh my
engineering partners out. So I jump on
the the live site bridges when something
goes down and you know as something as
simple as like you can automatically get
a summary of everything that just
happened cuz usually there's 15 people
talking you don't actually know where
the incident started where it's going to
end and everything and then all of a
sudden I have that and I can kind of
figure out and ask questions and get
updates like awesome like I think that
um kind of the the entire kind of DevOps
area is is changing. We use it to uh we
use Spark to create prototypes. So
everybody on the team is expected to
code, but like you know sometimes just
chatting in and like talking in real
words actually gets you to a prototype
that's more interesting and like more
expressive and reflective of your
creativity. So we use that. I mean I
think everybody's using AI to write. um
everybody's using uh AI to kind of uh
find ways to have efficiencies and like
coming up with uh documentation and
things like that. And so I think it's
everywhere which is cool. Um I think
that we're just scratching the surface
though for kind of like what's possible
in terms of working with agents.
>> That's how I always feel when people ask
me how I use AI. I'm just like it's just
like everywhere. It's just like in every
little sprinkled in everything I do now.
I don't even know how to describe it.
>> Yeah. It's hard to remember a world
where it didn't really exist.
>> Yeah. There's there's a a product
manager that I collabed with, uh, Peter
Yang, who talks about how he just
doesn't I don't even know how to do a
strategy doc anymore without AI. Like,
how did people do this without having
someone
>> Do you think there will be strategy docs
in the future? That's going to be
interesting.
>> I I have this like I wrote this post
once of like which skills of a PM job
will be most replaced by AI and strategy
is the one that people are the most have
the biggest debate on. Like you could
argue, I don't know if like let's get
into it briefly. Uh you would think if
some AI had all of the information you
had about where the market's going, your
metrics, your product today, it would be
so good at developing a strategy for
you. Many people think that's the one
thing AI will be really not good at for
a long time because that's where we need
all this human judgment stuff. I don't
know. Do you have any thoughts? I think
that some of the most consequential
products in the world
required a bunch of kind of
deterministic
like logical sets of inputs and like
sparks of creativity and imagination and
judgment and vision that could not be
achieved without humans. um like uh
Microsoft is like the vision of a
software factory and creating what
Microsoft did uh wasn't inevitable. Um
Instacart uh you know there was web vans
and web bands didn't work but Instacart
did work because of a different way of
thinking about it. Uh that came through
judgment and iteration and a bunch of
things that you couldn't have learned
unless you actually went through the
process. Uh you know the iPod like you
you go forward. So I think it's there. I
think docs themselves like for every
idea, for every you know need will just
start to kind of fade into you know
applications and and different artifacts
in the productivity suite which um you
know is just a different way of working.
>> Yeah. Like your your original question
which I didn't quite answer but I think
is important. You're asking like do we
even need strategy docs? And I guess
it's just like somehow everyone needs to
be aligned on the strategy. Maybe it's
not a doc.
>> Yeah. Could be some other If if you if
you architect an organization the right
way to keep up with AI, you know, you
you need a learn you need a different
alignment mechanisms than traditional
ways of actually working.
>> So let me ask you actually about that.
So planning right now is just crazy. How
do you like how does anyone plan a road
map when there's just like okay GPT5 is
out. Okay, great. Uh what what what
works for you for setting actual a road
map and a strategy for your team? Like
how far out do you plan? How often do
you have to rethink everything?
>> I mean, I'll caveat this by saying like
everyone's just figuring it out and it's
a lot harder to figure it out when
you're a larger organization than when
you're, you know, much smaller and you
get to kind of uh, you know, run
something yourself. And there's pros and
cons to both. So, here's what we do. We,
uh, the company, um, historically, at
least in our product teams, had kind of
semesters that they planned again. So,
think of that as every six months.
There's kind of a strategy, look back,
look forward, all of those things. I
think that's very valuable. I think like
the idea of six months though and really
understanding what's changing out in
front is is truly challenging to kind of
have a overbaked situation. And so we
kind of think about it as you know what
season are we in? And so a season which
is very uncomfortable can be denoted by
a set of secular changes that are
happening in the industry or that are
happening from customers. And so you
know you can think about season one
might have been like you know the
prototyping of AI and kind of the early
GPT work and then it was all around
models and reasoning models and now it's
the advent of agents and so that can
last a year that can last six months
that can last three months but like
grounding everybody on the the ethos of
what are the secular changes what are
the customer problems we need to solve
what does winning look like so everybody
has that shared sense what is the
northstar metric is something that we
do. The second thing that we do is that
we have kind of loose quarterly OKRs. So
like okay if we believe that what do we
need to do next quarter to actually put
ourselves on a path to that and then
from there uh you know teams are
operating in squads and they're kind of
setting out you know four to six week um
goals that they're trying to go after
for problem areas to go ladder up to
that you know and especially as the
platform for the company and the
platform for our Azure customers uh with
AI I will say we we go through lots of
changes to that all the time and I think
we have to just have an openness that
that is the business that we're in. I
think the other thing is just like we
try to leave slack in the system not
just for the unplanned but for the the
slope. I think that we have to
continuously be thinking about how we're
going to disrupt the platform um in our
thinking and what we need to be
investing in to make that possible. And
so we try to do a little bit of both.
>> This is awesome. So what I'm hearing
here is there's this concept of seasons
and everyone's aligned. Okay, this is
time for agents. This is what's
happening right now. We're going to
center around our strategy around agents
and then there's these loose quarterly
OKRs you plan for 3 months roughly and
then you leave some slack in the system
for things to change.
>> Yes.
>> Is the current season agents? How would
you describe what season we're in right
now?
>> Yeah. Okay. It's agents. Rise of agents.
>> The rise of agents. That sounds like a
Terminator movie. Do you uh is do you
have a sense of what the might next
season might be? Is there any like oh
this might be coming next?
>> Gosh. Um I don't um but I think that
look like we have you know more than
15,000 agents that are uh deployed on
our service today um at least at the the
Azure service. There's a bunch of other
platforms in the company and I would
just say that I think that we should
really focus on um making sure that we
have all of the alignment,
accountability, observability, evals to
making those agents like great. I think
that uh Manis's breakthrough in the
space was that they could like do these
tool calling loops and have agents kind
of do longer running tasks that really
no other platform was able to do. I
think stuff like that is critical.
Memory is critical. Like there's still
uh a bunch of building blocks that I
think like are leaving agents incomplete
in the wild that I think we have to
really sweat the details on before we
move on.
>> So it's just like uh agents till the end
of time until super intelligence and
then we're just on beaches chilling.
>> Yes. Agents until dank memes. Um look
like I Yeah. I I think the cool thing is
is like something new could come in 3
months, something new could come in uh
13 months. I think like we kind of have
this conviction on a set of building
blocks that we want to provide to enable
these agents to uh endure and and have
high endurance. And so that's that's
what we're focusing.
>> When you said there's 15,000 agents,
what does that mean? Is that 15,000
types of agents you can use or is it
like that's how many processes? uh
that's you know customers 15,000 I I
think I should re reference the numbers
15,000 customers who have produced
agents I think the number of agents is
actually like millions
>> 15,000 customers that are building a
specific kind of agent on your platform
and they're running and the number of
agents is in the millions just running
in the cloud
>> exactly
>> okay how
it's wild some crazy numbers here
>> okay so let me just kind of go in a
slightly different direction you're kind
of in this you're kind of in the center
of the storm of a lot of AI just like
seeing everything that's going on. Is
there something you wish you'd known
before stepping into this role that
you're just like, "Okay, I see. I didn't
expect this."
>> When I first took the role, it was kind
of described as like the belly of the
beast. And I um had spent most of my
career building products at the center
of machine learning and applications or
businesses. Um and I think that to my
surprise a lot of the learnings have
translated in terms of what makes a
great platform um is what makes a great
product. So and and like the thing for
me is like it's often in the invisible
work or the like not the pixels that
actually drives that. So like for
example one of the first companies that
I worked at was a company called Porch
Group. I was employee 7 and we knew we
wanted to help people take care of their
home. And I think we invented so many
features like the home report or like a
way to manage your home or like house
style inspiration where you could like
see all of the the houses and map every
single room. And the single most
important thing that we could could have
done and did during my time there was
create a matching platform that matched
the 6 million professionals with the
1300 service types of the uh 37,000 zip
codes and all of the homeowners in North
America to actually take care of their
their home. And that was just the game
of inches and kind of optimizing that
engine in order to create higher quality
leads. Essentially, that's what got us
to the the first 500 billion uh $500
million valuation. That's eventually
what we built on to actually have other
vertical services uh and software
platforms that that IP of the company.
Same with messaging. Um the number one
learning that I had was look like
WhatsApp didn't win because it had
stickers or stories or dark mode. In
fact, I I don't even think it had all of
those things when it won. It won on a
few premises because one was the phone
book. Like you knew that when you use
WhatsApp you could reach every single
person because you had their phone
number and those are the people that you
care about when you're using messaging.
It was the reliability and how fast it
was. Like I could text my grandmother in
India and know that she would get my
text message all the time. And then it
was the privacy. Like when you are
sending 200 messages a day to the four
people you care about most, you want to
make sure no one else can read the
messages. And so the end to end
encryption really mattered. And so it
wasn't the hundred hundreds of features.
It was all in kind of the infrastructure
and the platform. And same with
Instacart, right? Like there are so many
loved features of Instacart, but at the
end of the day, it's a billion items
that updates 3,000 times every single
minute to get homeowners their groceries
from the store that they love. And so I
think I I wish I had known that because
I think it would have curtailed my
learning curve to say that it's not all
the features for the the platform that
matters. It's the data residency so the
hospital in Germany that's fine-tuning a
model can do so in confidence and the
data isn't going to leave the region.
It's the availability. It's the
reliability. It's, you know, making sure
you have the right selection of the
tools that enterprises need and the
right way to retrieve the knowledge. And
that's kind of the the platform that
we've built. but just didn't fully have
that picture that those learnings would
translate.
>> That's really interesting. So, what I'm
hearing is people kind of undervalue
just how the simp the simple bottom of
the Maslaw hierarchy of of things you
got of of things that help you win in in
platforms especially in messaging
platforms including so it's like
reliability uh privacy I don't know
availability
>> yeah performance reliability privacy
safety um all of those things. H let me
ask you kind of a totally different
question. When uh we were going to
record this previously and you're like
oh I have a big meeting with Satia I got
to do instead. Uh and so we moved to a
different time. Uh very few people get
to work with Satya. He's quite a quite a
successful leader. What's something
you've learned from him about I don't
know leadership or product building.
>> I've learned that optimism is a
renewable resource. um like this company
for 50 years has had you know every
reason not to succeed and it has and uh
even as it's had early success in the AI
era and challenges and other successes
like and the space is developing so
quickly.
I think that his ability to generate
energy and to use his optimism to kind
of renew everybody's dedication to the
mission um is unbelievable
and I think it's such an important part
of the culture. Everybody talks about
the growth mindset. That's real huge
part of the culture. But I think the
ability to to generate energy and
clarity on what we need to go do and uh
use optimism to renew the commitment
every single day for every single person
in a entirely competitive talent space
is like is pretty amazing.
>> Is that something you think that is just
innate to him or something that he's
worked on to just generate this optimism
on behalf of everyone?
>> I have no idea. Um we should ask him but
I am like deeply impressed by it. It's
interesting that a lot of this comes
down to just vibes. There's just like
this vibe of, you know, like I imagine
it's not him just the words he uses.
It's just like this energy that he
exudes, optimism and energy.
>> I mean, think about it. We all choose to
to, you know, someone just said this to
me and I thought it was great. We all
choose to close the door on our kids
every single day to go work on
something. And so you have to work on
something that is like deeply moving to
you and is like, you know, you have a
deep belief that is going to make the
world a better place. And like I think
that's why it's vibes. Like I I think
you you have to follow um and have a
sense of duty towards a mission that is
bigger than yourself.
>> It makes me think of a line that I've
referenced a couple times on this
podcast that's really hits people really
hard that the only people that'll
remember you working late are your kids.
>> Okay. I don't know where we're going
with that, but that was like, you know,
now you're like,
>> that's too much. We've gone too far.
>> Oh man. Okay. Well, let me ask you this.
What's What's driving you?
>> We could have said our customers. We
could have We could have gone a
different route on that one.
>> This is the real the real stuff. Um
what's driving you? What's driving you?
What's keeping you excited about uh the
work that you're doing?
>> What AI will help us do from a workforce
perspective? What it will help us do
from a healthcare perspective? like you
know my mom has cancer and I think a lot
about how wow we might find a way to
solve the form of cancer she has in my
lifetime and I never thought that was
possible 3 years ago like all of that's
deeply profound and the thing that like
I personally think a lot about now that
we know that we're living in this time
working with such powerful technology
is the the effects of it and how I can
you know best build a platform where
people can make use of it so Like the
reason why I work at Microsoft is
because like the whole ethos of the
company is like how do I help people and
businesses achieve more and like more
for me in the thing like I think about
at night um outside of um you know GPUs
is um you know I I think about like will
my son have classmates in the future and
that's not because agents are going to
replace them. It's because the the
fertility rates are declining, right?
Like the the average birth rate in the
90s when we were growing up was like
three and now it's 2.3 and in 2050 it's
estimated to be, you know, below
replacement.
And I think that AI can have such a big
effect on it and already is like I was
just reading about a hospital in London
that's you know able to improve
pregnancy rates by using AI to match you
know eggs and sperms and they're cutting
costs at the same time. Uh you saw with
the ChachiBT5 launch yesterday such an
amazing story about how ChachBT is
helping in healthcare. you know,
Stanford's one of our big customers with
the with the platform that I uh build
and they're working on using AI for
tumor reviews and um it's just like that
is like it is these sets of things that
will like move humanity forward and
expand our lifetime and give us the like
privilege to solve hundredyear problems.
And so that's that's why I'm excited and
that's why I do what I do.
>> Yeah. Especially in your role where
you're building the platform that
enables all of this. I could see how uh
impactful that could be. Asha, is there
anything else that you wanted to touch
on or share or double down on of
anything we've talked about before we
get to our very exciting lightning
round?
>> We touched on it a little bit, but I
think that um with the advent of agents
and products that think and can act and
reason, there's going to be this kind of
new wave around RL. And it I have a deep
belief that that that will become one of
the most important product techniques
kind of of the next season or at least
the next few seasons
>> in RL is reinforcement learning.
>> Yes. Yes. Exactly. Like I believe we
will see you know just as much money
spent on post-training uh as we will on
pre-training and in the future more on
post-training. Um we talked a little bit
about Nathan Lambert's study where his
review was that you know when a model
hits 30 billion parameters it makes more
sense to kind of fine-tune and optimize
that. you know 50% of developers uh
according to surveys are now fine-tuning
uh and we know fine-tuning is good but
like if you actually go through the full
loop you can get better results so I
think there's there's a bunch there and
I think there's a whole new set of
infrastructure and platforms and uh
companies that will be created that are
all around this part of the stack and so
um I think it's an exciting time to be
in the platform space but it's also an
exciting time to be starting companies
and be thinking about those problems
>> I want to make sure people truly
understand what you're saying here cuz
not everyone truly understands
post-training, pre-training. What's the
simplest way to understand the
difference there and just why it's such
a big deal that that investment is
moving to post-training? The way that I
think about it is you know to create a
foundation model um creates a tre it
requires a tremendous amount of compute
a tremendous amount of science uh
expertise as we're seeing who's uh which
the cost for scientists or the average
value is rising dramatically and I think
you know
an expertise that we've seen it like
isn't everywhere in the world right now
and so it's just a big capex investment
to do that. And with this explosion of
models that we talked about in the
beginning, there's a lot of good models
to choose from for different domains.
And so I think that you just get more
leverage economically. You get more
leverage from a taste perspective of how
you actually want to steer a model uh if
you're actually doing reinforcement
learning or some sort of fine-tuning to
actually start to optimize what's off
the shelf for some outcome like price,
performance, quality. And if you think
about that, that's that's not crazy,
right? like you know ranking is an
age-old uh optimization problem where
you don't want to just take what's off
the shelf because there's like amazing
frameworks and UI and kind of components
that you know the world is React
components that are out there. You still
want to tailor the experience to a set
of use cases or set of people. I think
it's just the same kind of industrial
logic.
>> So in practice what you're what this
means is there's like a GPT5 model.
You're saying there's a lot of
opportunity and a much more efficient
way to spend money, which is take
something like that and then train it on
additional custom data that you have,
whether it's data or just reinforcement
learning, maybe even with with humans to
align it with what you wanted to
achieve.
>> Yep. And it could be your own data, it
could be data that you buy, could be
synthetic data, could be, you know,
something else. But I think that um I I
think that we're kind of going to start
to see, you know, more and more
companies and organizations kind of
start to think about how do I adapt a
model rather than how do I take
something uh off the shelf as is or
invest a bunch of money in building my
own models.
>> Yeah, I forget. I know Curser when he
was on the podcast, he shared that they
have a bunch of models that that support
your experience with Curser and over
time they're just going to have their
own thing. I I forget who it was, Winerf
or one of those guys just uses their own
model now. They don't just plug into
Claude.
>> I'm much more in the model system camp.
Like I believe in uh model diversity. I
think that in experience like Claude uh
like Sonnet 4 is awesome for a set of
use cases versus GPT5 is different for
different use cases. I think that
there's some tasks where you care about
the latency of the model. you want,
you're like cool with the thinking time
or you kind of want uh quick retrieval
and things like that. Like I I think the
the beauty is there's a lot of models
that can kind of help you achieve that.
And so I'm much more in the like model
system uh rather than one model to rule
them all.
>> Is that the right term? I've also heard
ensemble model ensemble of models.
>> I think about an ensemble of models as a
set of multiple models that then you can
you know fine-tune and deploy
independently. But you know at this
point we're all making up different
terminology to define things that we
like have deep beliefs on that have like
you know uh limited sets of data points
because everything is moving so fast.
>> Yeah. With that we've reached our very
exciting lightning round.
>> Yes. I'm very excited for our lightning
round and I'm like turning down the
lights
>> and then it'll come back on I imagine in
one second. Okay. First question. What
are two or three books you find yourself
recommending most to other people
>> at work? It's probably Thinking Machine.
Uh so it's all about treating the the
cause not the symptoms. The like you
know prototypical example is like you
know in the if if you want to solve
traffic you don't actually put up you
know speed bumps or or speed limits you
actually have to like solve walkability
and mobility and kind of like why people
actually use cars. Um, outside of that,
uh, kind of personally, um, the CMO of
Instacart, uh, recommended to me
Tomorrow and Tomorrow and Tomorrow, and
I read it like last month and last year
and the year before because I love it so
much. It's like this like beautiful
story over 10 years.
>> What are some favorite recent movie or
TV shows you really enjoyed?
>> Formula 1, Saw Twice, uh, For All
Mankind.
For all mankind, I like season 4. Uh, I
don't know. I I like kind of playing out
alternative theories to kind of how the
space race might have looked.
>> Do you have a favorite product you
recently discovered they really love?
Could be tech, could be gadgets, could
be clothing.
>> So, I just joined the the board of of
the Home Depot and we're doing a little
renovation project. And so, uh there's
this new kind of new to me DeWalt kind
of power pack and they use pouch cells.
And so it's like 50% like lighter but
with all the the power and it's like
awesome for drills and like things that
you know I need to lift up with one hand
that feel heavy. So I love that. We also
are testing out this new brilliance
smart home kind of system. Uh so it's
like kind of 4 in of like high-res
middleware that allows you to kind of
connect to everything. And I've like
reached peak kind of just sat with like
the explosion of all the technology
required to actually use your home. So,
it just might be the middleware that
like sticks, but we'll see.
>> Did you say DSAT? Is that short for
dissatisfaction?
>> Yes.
>> Sorry, I'm speaking in acronyms.
>> Whoa. I've never heard that. Dat. It's
like I love that. By the way, I love
that you're on the board of The Home
Depot. What a what a different part of
the spectrum of of of work.
>> Yeah, it's been it's been awesome. the
very first board meeting, the head of
philanthropy been at the com has been at
the company for decades and she said,
"Welcome to the greatest company on the
planet."
>> Pretty special.
>> You're like, "No, Microsoft." Uh, is
there something you've learned from
working with that with them that you've
brought to Microsoft?
>> Like it's it's it's new. It's this year,
but I've long worked at on products that
kind of had that impact. So, like when I
was at Porch, it was Pros. At Instacart,
we had 600,000 shoppers. Um, and
obviously the Home Depot depot has
associates. One of my favorite things
about the company culturally is they
have this inverted pyramid where instead
of having like executives at the top,
the associates are at the top and the
stores themselves are uh headquarters uh
and and then the the kind of traditional
HQ is kind of support. Um, and so it's
just like it's so customer- ccentric and
when I think about amazing execution and
creating these durable long-term
institutions and kind of how culture and
ideology and and kind of leadership is
formed. Like I think about that and I
think about at the end of the day, you
know, AI is going to have an impact on
every single person and every single
job. And it's like amazing to kind of
just spend time with people outside of
our bubble and and kind of really try
and learn what their real pain and
problems and how they think about AI and
how they think about technology and kind
of what we need to do.
>> Okay, two more questions. Do you have a
favorite life motto that you find
yourself coming back to sharing with
friends and family?
>> I I I used to use the kind of minimize
regret framework. Um, and I it's it's
great and I've I've used that for a long
time. I think that probably once I got
into my adult years and started to kind
of have a family and things like that,
my uh kind of just worldview changed a
little bit and I it was all about
maximizing
kind of option value and it just gave
the things that I naturally cared about
like family and health and trust and
relationships like it was just kind of
like a new level of like value
associated with those because all all of
a sudden learning rest on the weekend
can like compound in the future or you
know having good health can compound in
the future. You don't like have to trade
that off of working extra hours or you
know the importance of family and all of
those things. And so I think that like
the my worldview is like when I'm 70
it's not about what do I look back on in
my life and count the number of regrets.
It's really about like looking forward
in the number of adventures I will still
have because I have like accumulated
this wealth of of skills and trust and
you know people and and family and
impact and things like that.
>> Speaking of skills, uh the internet
tells me that you have you're a second
degree black belt in Taekwondo.
>> Uh why oh gosh, is this true? And then I
have a question about it.
>> Uh this is true.
>> Okay, that's incredible. What's some Why
are you Why is this embarrassing? That's
an incredible thing. Uh
>> I'm I'm generally embarrassed anytime
anything is discussed about
>> Okay, great. No problem. Uh what's
something that you learned from Taekwond
do uh that has helped you with life or
or work?
>> Taekwondo is more mental than it is
physical. Um and so I think that's the
same with kind of like all of our jobs
and making product. Like I think it's
like mental clarity. It's it's courage.
It's it's kind of the um ambition to
kind of see things through and be
unwavering. And so I I think that's
literally, you know, what it taught me
outside of meditating, which probably
took me the entire time to like actually
learn to meditate and clear my head. Um
but uh yeah, I I think it's awesome.
Like I think everybody imagines like you
know flying sidekicks or running up a
wall and like you can do those things
too but the real value is like the
mental pursuit of it all you know
>> and you can do those things too. Wow.
Okay. Good. I got to get into this.
Asha, this was uh awesome. Is there uh
Oh, actually two final questions. Where
can folks find you online if they want
to maybe follow up on anything if you
want people to reach out? And how can
listeners be useful to you? You can hit
me up on LinkedIn um
or email or text. Um I think all of
those are traceable. Look, like how can
you be helpful to me is I I think like
we're all early in in this journey and
great platforms are built on great use
cases and built on great customers. And
so like if you have feedback, you have
ideas, you have like things you want AI
to be able to do um to help you achieve
more, I'd love to hear it. I think the
the thing about all of these changes is
that all all of these new products and
use cases will be developed everywhere
and so I'm always just thinking about
how can we be the platform to support
that.
>> Amazing. Asha, thank you so much for
being here.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Bye everyone.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.